# Setup different deploy keys for different GitHub repositories

We want to allow a foreign machine to read *and* write to a GitHub
repository. We will use a GitHub "deploy" key to accomplish this. This
process allows you to use *different* key-pairs for different GitHub
repositoies in the same GitHub account.

Say you ahve two projects `project1` and `project2` in your GitHub
account. You can set up the same deploy key for both projects or different
keys for each.

1. Call the GitHub repository `project9`.

1. Create a *new* SSH key-pair. For the e-mail address you can put anything(?).

        ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096 -C "your_email@example.com" -f project9

1. The above comand created two files: `project9` (containing the private
part of of the key-pair) and `project9.pub` (containing the public part).

1. Move these two files into your usual `.ssh` directory where all your SSH
options and other keyfiles are kept. For example:

        mv project9* $HOME/.ssh/

1. Add the *public* key (`project9`) as a deploy key in the GitHub repository
`project`. Be sure to CHECK the "Allow write access" box.

1. Clone the GitHub repository:

        git clone https://github.com/githubuser/project9.git

1. Change directory into the cloned repository:

        cd project9

1. Configure this working directory to use the `project9` SSH private key
when pushing:

        git config core.sshCommand "ssh -i ~/.ssh/project9 -F /dev/null"

1. Change the URL from `https` to `ssh`:

        git remote set-url origin git@github.com:githubuser/project9.git

1. Now you can push.
