[[!toc levels=3]]

# Debian packaging basics and definitions

## The "upstream" distribution

Most Debian software is derived from some non-Debian software project
(e.g., Apache, OpenLDAP, etc.). We refer to these files as the _upstream
software_ or _upstream dstribution_. The upstream software is usually
supplied as a `.tar.gz` tarball. Usually (but not always) this software
has no special support for Debian or Debian package building. It is the
job of Debian packagers to take this upstream distribution and turn it
into a Debian package.

The Debian packaging tools expect the upstream distribution tarball to
have a name in the format `package-version.tar.gz`. The `package-version`
part is described in the Package Version section.

## Debian binary package

The Debian binary package (`.deb`) is the actual file containing the
sofware and other support files needed to install software onto a Debian
system. A `.deb` file is analogous to an `.rpm` file for RedHat
systems.

A Debian binary package is an `ar` archive containing these files:

* `data.tar.xz`: the files to install on the Debian system

* `control.tar.gz`: isntructions on how to install the files including the
package `control` file, other package dependencies, and optional scripts
used during package install and removal

To extract these files from a `.deb` file use `ar -x`:

    ar -x hello-debian_0.0.2-5-11_amd64.deb

Most Debian binary packages are intended to be installed on a specific
version of Debian, for example, Debian `stretch`. Thus, Debian binary
files have to be rebuilt for each different version of Debian. The Debian
source package is used to build `.deb` files.

See also [Packaging
BinaryPackage](https://wiki.debian.org/Packaging/BinaryPackage) and [the
Debian Policy Manual on Binary
packages](https://www.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/ch-binary.html).

## Debian source package

A Debian source package , according to [Packaging
SourcePackage](https://wiki.debian.org/Packaging/SourcePackage),

> ... provided you with all of the necessary files to compile or
> otherwise, build the desired piece of software.

Unlike a Debian binary package a Debian source package is not a single
file, rather, a source package consists of three files:

* The upstream tarball ending in `.tar.gz`.

* The `.dsc` file ("desription of the source code"

* (optional) a file containing changes to the upstream source; this usally
  exists and, for non-native packages, ends in `.debian.tar.gz`.

### The `.dsc` file

The `.dsc` file contains a number of fields that describe how the Debian
package was build. These fields correspond to the fields in the
`debian/control` file. For more information on the `.dsc` file and the
supported fields, see the man page (`man dsc`).

### Building the source package

The principal tool used with Debian package source files is
`dpkg-source`. To build the source package you would change into the
directory containng the Debian package files and run

    dpkg-source --build .

Typically you do _not_ run this command explicitly, rather, one of the
[Debian package tools](??) calls this command itself.
